{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fmodern \fcharset0 \fprq1 Courier New;}{\f2\fnil \fcharset2 \fprq2 WP MathA;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \sbknone\margtsxn1680\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs24\pard \fs24\tqr\tx9360
\tab 129033/\chpgn \par \pard \fs24
\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24\qc\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 MY EXPERIENCES IN INDIA\par
}\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1\tqr\tx9360 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 {\f2 \'38}This was very good{\f2 \'39}\ul0 \tab \par
}\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 Radio address by Margaret Sanger on {\u8220\'93}My Experiences in India{\u8221\'94}\par
}\pard \fs24\qc\sl480\slmult1\tqr\tx9360 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Pittsburgh, Wednesday, 9 A.M.\par
}\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \b\f1 Put in Header}{\plain \fs24 \f1 : }{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 \{Margaret Sanger is the President of the National \softline
Committee on Federal Legislation for Birth Control, and Director \softline
of the Birth Control Clinical Research bureau, America{\u8217\'92}s oldest \softline
and largest birth control clinic.  She went to India as \softline
representative of the Birth Control International Information \softline
Centre, London, of which she is also the President.\}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \ul0 \tab In India, where I spent a good part of the past year, there \softline
is a proverb: {\u8220\'93}Wisdom is knowing what to do, skill is knowing how \softline
to do it but virtue is in the doing it.{\u8221\'94}  As I go from country to \softline
country, from city to city, through the world, I am convinced \softline
that in America today we have the wisdom, the knowledge and the \softline
skill, in knowing what to do and how to solve our problems, but \softline
we do not have }{\plain \fs24 \strike\f1 the virtue}{\plain \fs24 \f1  {\f2 \'38}that thing call it virtue, courage or \softline
[initiative?]{\f2 \'39} to do it.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab I was invited to come to India by the All India Woman{\u8217\'92}s \softline
Conference, representing between eleven and twelve millions of \softline
the most intelligent women of the Orient.  I was greatly \softline
surprised that so many women in India spoke English and were well \softline
informed about problems which we in the West are so futilely \softline
trying to solve.  I was also surprised to find that not only 
educated Indians, particularly doctors and social workers, were \softline
willing and eager to find some way of dealing with \softline
overpopulation, but that men and women of all classes were \softline
pathetically anxious to learn about birth control.  Women begged \softline
and pleaded for information about how to limit their families and \softline
space their children.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \i\f1 \ul0 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \f1 This was not at all what I had been led to expect in India.   \softline
People who claimed to be familiar with conditions, with whom I \softline
had talked before I landed in Bombay, were pessimistic.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\u8220\'93}Their religion makes it an Indian woman{\u8217\'92}s highest duty to \softline
have children,{\u8221\'94} I was told.  {\u8220\'93}The more she has the better she \softline
likes it.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab One highly educated Indian man said to me: {\u8220\'93}Why, Mrs. \softline
Sanger, you can do nothing.  We all admit that birth control is \softline
the only answer to India{\u8217\'92}s population problem, but the women \softline
themselves don{\u8217\'92}t want it.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab I was sure they were wrong.  I have always been sure that \softline
women in all lands and all ages have instinctively desired family \softline
spacing.  I was sure that in a land like India, where you find \softline
women seeking a new freedom, economic and social, there would be \softline
thousands of minds reaching out to find knowledge which would \softline
mean freedom.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab So I said nothing, {\f2 \'38}but waited.{\f2 \'39}  I wanted to learn for \softline
myself whether the women of India were so different from the 
women fo any other country in the world, that they wanted and \softline
would cling to endless childbearing if the way to voluntary \softline
motherhood were opened to them.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Just two days after I arrived in Bombay I went to the \softline
{\u8220\'93}chawls,{\u8221\'94} the long rows of tenement houses where the city{\u8217\'92}s mill \softline
workers are crowded together in small dark rooms.  Children, \softline
their naked little bodies bone-thin, played in the streets, or \softline
sat listlessly in the shadow of the buildings.  Mothers stared \softline
with inert eyes.  Almost every one had a baby or small child on \softline
her hip.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab I knew that of every 1000 children born in Bombay, 298 die.  \softline
I know that it has been estimated that 100 of every 1000 mothers \softline
in India die in childbirth.  I looked at these poor, worn out \softline
women, at their undernourished, undersized children.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\u8220\'93}Ask this mother how many children she has,{\u8221\'94} I said to the \softline
social worker who accompanied me, {\f2 \'38}and{\f2 \'39} pointed to a woman in a \softline
ragged sari, squatting on the street, holding a baby in her arms.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\u8220\'93}Six,{\u8221\'94} was the answer.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\u8220\'93}And how many dead?{\u8221\'94}, I asked.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\u8220\'93}Five{\u8221\'94}, she answered.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\u8220\'93}And how many more do you want,{\u8221\'94} I pursued.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab She threw out her hands in a pathetic gesture.  A look of \softline
fear came into her tired, lined face.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\u8220\'93}Please God, no more!{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \ul0 \tab We talked to scores of mothers, some old, some young, and \softline
they all echoed the words, {\u8220\'93}Please God, no more.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab No Bombay man can again tell me that women of this city, or \softline
any city in India do not want information which will free them of \softline
the dread of bringing children into the world to rob those they \softline
already have of food and clothing and care, of the very breath of \softline
life.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Every moment }{\plain \fs24 \strike\f1 from my arrival}{\plain \fs24 \f1  {\f2 \'38}of my stay{\f2 \'39} in India was \softline
crowded with meetings and conferences, with interviews and \softline
lectures.  The problem was not how to meet opposition, for there \softline
are no legal restrictions, such as we have in America, and \softline
practically no religious opposition.  The task was how to train \softline
doctors, midwives and nurses, to organize clinics, and put the \softline
movement on a firm, scientific foundation as a public health \softline
measure.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Birth control is a burning question in India, and those best \softline
qualified to understand India{\u8217\'92}s problems are aware of this.  \softline
According to Major General Megaw, medical adviser to the \softline
Secretary of State for India, the population is rapidly \softline
outstripping industrial production and the situation can best be \softline
summed up in words {\u8220\'93}They do not get enough to eat.{\u8221\'94}  Experts \softline
agree that by 1941, when the next census is taken, India{\u8217\'92}s \softline
population may well number four hundred millions.\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\margtsxn1680\margbsxn1359\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs24\pard \fs24\tqr\tx9360
\tab 129033/\chpgn \par \pard \fs24
\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Infant and maternal mortality are tragically high, but 
infant welfare work without birth control is making matters \softline
worse, for it saves the infants, only to let them starve later \softline
on.  As in other countries, welfare work without birth control is \softline
dysgenic and chaotic, cruel as well as planless.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab I have attended many meetings of women in my lifetime, but \softline
the All India Woman{\u8217\'92}s Conference will remain one of the \softline
outstanding inspirations of my life.  I found among these women \softline
an outspoken directness of opinion, a fearlessness in facing \softline
issues as they are, that we in America would do well to follow.  \softline
The Conference passed a resolution in favor of establishing birth \softline
control clinics.\par
}\sect \sectd \sbknone\marglsxn1350\margtsxn1680\margbsxn1359\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs24\pard \fs24\tqr\tx9360
\tab 129033/\chpgn \par \pard \fs24
\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab The All India Medical Conference took definite action in \softline
placing the subject of birth control where it belongs, as part of \softline
the physicians program for preserving the health of his nation.   \softline
It passed a resolution recommending that instruction in \softline
conception control methods should form part of the curriculum in \softline
medical colleges and schools and in the training of health \softline
visitors, nurses and midwives.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab I also lectured and showed scientific films which I had with \softline
me on the Biology of Conception, at the All Indian Obstetric and \softline
Gynecological Congress, the first of its kind in India.  Indeed \softline
the movement got off to a good start in India, having the support \softline
of organized medicine, and of individual doctors everywhere.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab One of the highlights of my stay in India was my visit to 
Mahatma Gandhi, and two memorable conversations I had with him.  \softline
Gandhi has aroused the men and women of India as no one else has \softline
done, and the women of India wanted me to se him.  He turned out \softline
to be even a better feminist than I am.  For I believe that \softline
parenthood and marriage should be put on a fifty-fifty basis, \softline
that the man as well as the woman should have something to say \softline
about how many children should be brought into the world.  But \softline
Gandhi would leave all this to the women.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab Mr. Gandhi and I disagreed with mutual tolerance, and I am \softline
glad to say, respect.  {\u8220\'93}I think highly of your purpose,{\u8221\'94} he said \softline
to me in parting. {\u8220\'93}May God guide you right.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab By the time I left India, fifty teaching centers had been \softline
established, and supplies had been distributed to public health \softline
officials and hospitals. My plan on leaving India in the same as \softline
I make here in America: Those in authority, those in charge of \softline
public health, those advocating the cause of social and mental \softline
health should take a firm stand and include birth control \softline
knowledge and its practice where it is desired and needed.  This \softline
is a responsibility that can no longer be evaded or shirked, and \softline
one which the masses have a right to expect. \par
}\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1\tx720\tqr\tx9450 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \tab {\f2 \'38}It is gratifying to come to Wabash Bldg Pittsburgh to find \softline
there is also a center here where mothers can go & receive from \softline
Doctors advice to space birth & control size of family.{\f2 \'39}\ul0 \tab \par
}{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpbypara\shptop0\shpbottom0\shpbxmargin\shpleft0\shpright0{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 12192}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineStyle}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lineDashing}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lineColor}{\sv 2}}{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 20}}}}
{\shp{\*\shpinst\shpwr3\shpwrk0\shpbypara\shptop9\shpbottom9\shpbxmargin\shpleft0\shpright9450{\sp{\sn lineWidth}{\sv 12192}}{\sp{\sn fLine}{\sv 1}}{\sp{\sn lineStyle}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lineDashing}{\sv 0}}{\sp{\sn lineColor}{\sv 2}}{\sp{\sn shapeType}{\sv 20}}}}
\pard \fs24\sl-2
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \f1 \par
}}