{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fmodern \fcharset0 \fprq1 Courier New;}{\f2\fnil \fcharset2 \fprq2 WP MathA;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \margtsxn1680\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs22\pard \fs24\qr 
236021/\chpgn \par \par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs22\qc 
{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 THE NEED OF BIRTH CONTROL IN AMERICA\par
}{\plain \fs22 \i\f1\fs22 \par
}\pard \fs22\qr 
{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 February 11, 1923\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \par
}\pard \fs22\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Madam Chairman and Ladies and Gentlemen:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Birth Control is the keynote of a new social awakening.  It is \softline
not only a health and economic expedient; it is a great social \softline
principle, a principle that is interlocked with the spiritual progress \softline
of the race and its future.  The idea of Birth Control is not new; }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 it \softline
is}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  only the methods that are being advocated and pressed today }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 that}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  \softline
are comparatively new; but the idea of Birth Control or the limitation \softline
of the family is as old as nature itself.  In fact, nature is the most \softline
ruthless, the most cruel advocate of Birth Control; her methods are \softline
disease, famine, pestilence, flood and wars.  Through these methods \softline
nature has controlled her population; through these methods nature has \softline
eliminated the unfit, those who are unable to compete for their \softline
survival, and  in this way and through theses methods, she has \softline
perpetuated and improved her types.{\f2 \'38}Man{\f2 \'39}{\f2 \'38}also{\f2 \'39}in practically all stages \softline
of his evolution has attempted to limit the size of his family, has \softline
attempted to keep the population down by other methods of Birth \softline
Control.  Those methods are infanticide or killing of babies; the \softline
abandonment of children, and [foeticide] -- these have been the \softline
methods through the stages of savagery & [}{\plain \fs22 \i\f1\fs22 barbarism}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 ] and even during \softline
the early stages of civilization{\f2 \'38}by which man has tried to control \softline
population{\f2 \'39}. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Plato advocated the exposure to the elements of all infants, to \softline
see if they were worth}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 y}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 of }{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 the keep of the State }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 or by the state}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 .  \softline
Aristotle advocated that the State should fix the number of children 
born to a family; and even Seneca advised that all children that were \softline
born of immoral or diseased parents should not be allowed to survive.  \softline
Even Rome who built up her power by the conquest of weaker nations \softline
also condemned healthy children to an early death.  These methods were \softline
used to such an alarming extent that from the Middle Ages practically \softline
down to the end of the 18th century, infanticide was }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}the{\f2 \'39}most \softline
common, the most prevalent crime of western Europe{\f2 \'38},{\f2 \'39} }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 during that time.}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22   \softline
No matter what was done to put down this crime of infanticide, it \softline
continued to increase.  The practice spread itself continually.  We \softline
read in our histories of most atrocious tortures that were applied to \softline
the mothers who abandoned or who killed their children.  In one \softline
sovereign{\u8217\'92}s reign {\f2 \'38}in Germany{\f2 \'39}which took about eighteen years there \softline
were more than 20,000 mothers tortured {\f2 \'38}to death{\f2 \'39}for the crime of \softline
infanticide.  These mothers -- and most of them were married women -- \softline
were put to death by being put into a bag with a cat and a dog and a \softline
viper, and }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 they}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  were thrown into a }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 ditch}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}body{\f2 \'39}of water, if there was \softline
one near{\f2 \'38}by.{\f2 \'39}  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab If, after a certain period of time, the victim had not ceased to \softline
move and to struggle, she was removed from the bag and was then put to \softline
death with {\f2 \'38}glowing{\f2 \'39}[thorns].  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 And}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  yet this did not put an end to \softline
infanticide.  All the tortures, all the threats of hell-punishments, \softline
did not put an end to infanticide; and it was not until the practice \softline
of abortions [became generally] known and the practice became \softline
generally prevalent that infanticide went out of fashion.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab We today, believe in beginning at the other end.  We believe not \softline
in the methods of nature and not in the methods of savages or }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 early}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  
[barbarians], but we believe in control of the birth rate by \softline
scientific means }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 to}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}that{\f2 \'39}prevent contraception.  That is the \softline
definition of Birth Control.  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  we believe that Birth Control is the \softline
key to the greatest of human problems,-- that of reconciling \softline
humanitarianism with race improvement.  We know that the development \softline
of the mind, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 to develop}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}and{\f2 \'39}the intellect }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 of man}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  has been a process of \softline
evolution.  It is a very slow growth, which while the reproductive \softline
process or capability of man is almost unlimited, yet unless we put \softline
some check, some control over the powers of reproduction, we are bound \softline
inevitably or eventually to be in such a state of society, to have so \softline
large a proportion of individuals in a community, that the mind, the \softline
intellect of that same group at that same state, is unable to keep up \softline
with the conditions created out of the numerous people who have \softline
multiplied and reproduced.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Now if we let this condition alone, as it has been let alone in \softline
the past, nature would take care of that; nature would simply thrust \softline
to the wall the old and the diseased and the sickly, and the feeble -- \softline
and she would adjust her types[}{\plain \fs22 \i\f1\fs22 ,}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 ] }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  she would adjust her population \softline
until they evolved gradually to make conditions and a system of \softline
society convenient for them all.  But we today, with the }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 development}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  \softline
{\f2 \'38}advance{\f2 \'39}of Christianity, with the development of humanitarianism and \softline
democracy and the }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 [}{\plain \fs22 \i\strike\f1\fs22 whole}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 ]}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  development of our sympathetic nervous \softline
system, we will not let that process take place; we will not let \softline
nature do this work.  And so we through our sympathies, through the \softline
finer development of man, we reach out our hands and we take care of \softline
your sickly and the diseased, the mentally deficient, and we take them 
to our hearts; we erect great institutions for their upkeep; and we \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 practice}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  force }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 upon the process of }{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 {\f2 \'38}them to{\f2 \'39} reproduce their types.  \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 This is what has happened, and the consequence is that we have}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  as we \softline
look out upon the world today,-- }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 you}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}we{\f2 \'39}find two very definite groups \softline
in society, as affected by the knowledge and the lack of knowledge in \softline
Birth Control.  In all the western countries you find }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 two groups}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  the \softline
small family group and the large family group.  In the small family \softline
group you find people who have limited the size of their families; for \softline
instance, you take some statistics by Dr.  Bertillion of Paris; he \softline
found that of a thousand women between the ages of 14 and 50, in the \softline
poor district of Paris that out of a thousand women of that district \softline
there were 166 births; for the same number of women between the same \softline
ages in the wealthy district, he found 32 births.  And in Berlin for \softline
that same number of women between the same ages, he found 57 births \softline
among the well-to-do and 147 among the poor; in Vienna it }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 went \softline
practically at}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}was{\f2 \'39}the same proportion -- 67 to 197.  And in London, \softline
practically the same; and this is what we [find] in almost every large \softline
city in the world.  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab But now let us look a little closer at that, because in my \softline
estimation that stationary problem among the well-to-do is not an \softline
immediate problem.  You look at this group and we see that they may \softline
have perhaps two, three or four children; and the great majority of \softline
those children, the greatest percentage of those children are brought \softline
up to full maturity.  It is in this group that we find a great \softline
percentage of health, of wealth, of comfort, of highest standards of \softline
living, the best standards of education; we find there the opportunity 
for development; not only for the father and mother, but the children \softline
themselves; we find there that although there are a few children, that \softline
those children are given the best advantages of education; they are \softline
the ones who fill our universities and our colleges.  It is from this \softline
group that we }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 take and}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  fill the best offices of state and society.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab On the other hand we find that large family group and what do we \softline
discover there?  You see there almost every problem that we are trying \softline
to solve today.  You find large families have been perpetuated for \softline
generations, and you find }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 where}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  [{\f2 \'38}their that{\f2 \'39}] large families and \softline
poverty go hand in hand; you find the problems in that group have also \softline
been perpetuated; you find there poverty, misery, ignorance, infant \softline
mortality, maternal mortality, slums, over-crowding; you find there \softline
child labor, unemployment; you find every problem, practically every \softline
problem that we are trying to solve; and you find the one group on the \softline
one hand, the great percentage of them, are taxed, are over-burdened \softline
with charities, with the support of members of the other group.  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Now it seems to me that this one group, in perpetuating \softline
themselves, are also perpetuating for generations to come the evils \softline
that are here before us.  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  most of us do not like these conditions \softline
and the most of us, in fact, -- are trying to do all we can to \softline
alleviate the conditions in this large family group.  But how do we go \softline
about it to remove them?  There has been practically no attempt to \softline
really, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 fundamentally}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  wipe out the evil conditions of society today.  \softline
Rather do we attempt to alleviate, we attempt to legislate, we run off \softline
to our capitols and try to legislate out of existence child labor, \softline
infant morality, maternal mortality and all the other conditions that 
are here, and that we do abhor.  But are we able to legislate them out \softline
of existence?  Let us see today, for instance.  Take infant mortality; \softline
that is a problem that affects us all.  We have in this great country \softline
more that 250,000 infants who die each year before they reach one year \softline
of age.  Ninety percent of those children die from causes due to \softline
poverty and neglect.  Yet we allow {\f2 \'38}the{\f2 \'39}}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 to remain in ignorance}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  500,000 \softline
parents of these children to remain in ignorance of how to prevent the \softline
coming of 250,00 more children the next year, ninety percent of whom \softline
will die of causes due to poverty and neglect. \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab We don{\u8217\'92}t get underneath the cause of infant mortality.  In my \softline
work as a trained nurse in New York City for more than fourteen years \softline
I found there were causes that most of us close our eyes to today.  \softline
For instance, one cause was two frequent pregnancies.  pregnancies \softline
that did not always terminate in the birth of a child.  Again I found \softline
children coming too close together, too close together for the mothers \softline
health.  Take a mother who had to go out and toil, working sometimes \softline
the whole day, sometimes at night, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and she would come home when she \softline
worked at night,}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  she}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22  would}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  come home through the day and carry on the \softline
duties of the mother and of the wife in the home.  That mother was \softline
exhausted and was using up the capital of that child before it was \softline
born.  How can you expect }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 that}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  those children born under such \softline
circumstances and conditions to have the vitality, the endurance to \softline
withstand the diseases of early infancy?\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 And}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  again I found that women were rebelling against having too \softline
many children.  I found women would rather die than have another \softline
child, and }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 they}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  were glad enough to face death in order to avoid it.  
Women who have five and six and seven children, whose husbands were \softline
toiling for a mere pittance,-- every instinct in that woman}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 {\u8217\'92}s life and \softline
heart}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  told her that another child should not be born; }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  she had but \softline
one of two things to do: to resign herself to unlimited numbers of \softline
children, to unlimited pregnancies, or to perform illegal operations.  \softline
And the rebellion of these women today is not resigning themselves to \softline
unlimited children, but they are resorting to illegal operations.  \softline
This is the condition which we find when we are close to the mothers, \softline
close to the women who belong to the large family group.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab We also find that our maternal mortality problem is one that \softline
could be helped if we could get down to fundamentals.  It is said that \softline
we have 22,000 mothers who pass out of life each year from causes \softline
incidental to pregnancy}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 , 22,000}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 .  Do you know what that means?  That \softline
means that two mothers every hour of the night and that day pass out \softline
of life, pass into the great beyond from causes that might be \softline
prevented.  You find among these mothers }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 that there will be}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  some }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 of \softline
them}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  who die from tuberculosis, and not so much tuberculosis as \softline
pregnancies during the development of the stages of tuberculosis.  Out \softline
of every seven women who have tuberculosis four of them die, not from \softline
tuberculosis, but from pregnancy.  Those women should never be allowed \softline
to become pregnant; and yet we know that the medical profession is \softline
allowed legally to relieve them of their pregnancy in order to save \softline
their lives; but they are sent back to their homes, back to the same \softline
environment and the same conditions without assistance, without \softline
advice, of how to prevent their getting into that condition again.  We \softline
are like the ostrich-- we have our heads in the sand; and we will not 
face the dangers.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab We have also women who suffer from kidney disease, from heart \softline
disease, and it is only fair and honest and right that these women at \softline
least should be helped and protected from further pregnancies because \softline
every time they become pregnant it means that that disease is \softline
enhanced, and there is one of two things for the physician to do: to \softline
let her develop her pregnancy and die, or to relieve her pregnancy.  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab We find the same is true with our feeble minded.  Dr.  Goddard \softline
has said that there are 400,000 feeble minded in the United States -- \softline
I think this was in 1910-- and only 34,000 of these 400,000 are in \softline
institutions.  The others are living amongst us; they are our \softline
neighbors; they-- in fact-- are forming a very great problem for \softline
future generations to solve.  There we find among the feeble minded, \softline
that the feeble minded mother is three times as prolific as the normal \softline
woman, and we also find that a great percentage, over 65 percent, of \softline
the women living in prostitution are found to be feeble minded; and \softline
yet we close our eyes and let the feeble minded continue in \softline
reproduction.  We have today an appalling problem with the insane and \softline
the feeble minded; }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and when you think that the insane in practically \softline
every insane asylum are not sterilized, but}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  [}{\plain \fs22 \i\f1\fs22 {\f2 \'38}there are few \softline
institutions where the insane are sterilized{\f2 \'39}}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 ] yet a certain proportion \softline
of }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 them}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}the inmates{\f2 \'39} are allowed to go home [{\f2 \'38}}{\plain \fs22 \i\f1\fs22 at intervals}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 {\f2 \'39}] and \softline
almost inevitably leave behind them progeny, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and then are}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}while the \softline
parent is{\f2 \'39}returned to the asylum!  We have many cases, and you have \softline
them here also, where men have {\f2 \'38}become temporarily sane &{\f2 \'39}been allowed \softline
to go home }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 temporarily sane, and yet would only be home perhaps}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}while 
[}{\plain \fs22 \i\f1\fs22 witless}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 ]{\f2 \'39}a few weeks, sometimes a few days, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  have returned raving \softline
maniacs, leaving behind them a pregnant wife.  We have in most of our \softline
states -- }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and I suppose the Kalecks}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}increasing problems from [}{\plain \fs22 \i\f1\fs22 these}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 ] \softline
conditions{\f2 \'39}and Jukes family is familiar to all of you -- but it never \softline
hurts to bring to mind what is going on in practically every community \softline
of the United States today, as long as we allow the Feeble minded to \softline
reproduce.  Here for instance, is the story of Martin Kalack, a feeble \softline
minded man who married Rhoda      .  This was in 1809.  Four hundred \softline
and seventy known descendants; and of the progeny, there 143 feeble \softline
minded, 36 illegitimate children, 33 sexually immoral persons, mostly \softline
prostitutes, -- 24 confirmed alcoholics, 3 epileptics, 82 who died in \softline
infancy, 3 proprietors of houses of ill-fame, and 3 criminals.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Again there were 12,00 descendants of the Jukes family in 75 \softline
years.  Of these, 130 were professional paupers who, in all, spent \softline
2,300 years in poor-houses; 50 prostitutes, 7 murderers, 60 habitual \softline
thieves, and 130 common criminals.  The expense of maintaining of this \softline
one family, including cost of prostitutes, and care of others in \softline
institutions amounted to $1,300,000. in this 75 years.  That would be \softline
nothing compared to what they would cost today.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  we know that in every state we have the {\f2 \'38}Kalliack{\f2 \'39}family and \softline
the Jukes family, but we are reluctant to face fundamentals and to get \softline
at the bottom, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}of{\f2 \'39} in fact, I [}{\plain \fs22 \i\strike\f1\fs22 illegible}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 ] that}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  .  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 And}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  I found in my \softline
own nursing work that we were very much today -- and all social \softline
workers and nurses and doctors and those who are attempting to solve \softline
our social problems -- that that we are all like the old fashioned \softline
quack --           , the old fashioned quack who used to attempt to 
cure cancer by burning off the top.  On the outside everything looked \softline
all right; but underneath the deadly disease continued to develop \softline
until the whole vitality of the individual was eaten up.  We will take \softline
many of our societies today -- and I think one that I would like to \softline
illustrate is the Society of Prevention of Cruelty to Children, a most \softline
worthy society.  My only objection to it is that it doesn{\u8217\'92}t go back \softline
far enough.  Why doesn{\u8217\'92}t it attempt to prevent cruelty to children \softline
born of diseased parents?  Why doesn{\u8217\'92}t it prevent the cruelty of \softline
children being born in misery, in ignorance, in immorality?  Why \softline
doesn{\u8217\'92}t it herald the rights of the unborn child from the housetops?\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab I often think that if children had something to say about their \softline
parents, I think we would have a little more responsibility in our \softline
parenthood.  I would like to see parenthood a privilege, instead of an \softline
accident, as it is today.  And I often wonder, if parents had to apply \softline
in some unknown and unusual way, if they had to apply as they have to \softline
apply today perhaps for maids or for chauffeurs, if they had to apply \softline
to some kind of state or social registry where the unborn child would \softline
have something to say, I can almost hear some of the questions the \softline
average child would ask, and I think the first question would be, {\u8220\'93}Mr. \softline
Father, have you a health certificate with you?{\u8221\'94}  I think the second \softline
question might be, {\u8220\'93}How do you live?  Where do you live?  How many \softline
rooms have you got, and how is Mother{\u8217\'92}s health; is she a happy \softline
comfortable, jolly mother, or is she a nervous, worn-out drudge, a \softline
wreck?{\u8221\'94}  And furthermore, it might say, {\u8220\'93}Well my dear parents-to-be, \softline
the talents, the potentialities of a genius are within me.  Do you \softline
understand those elements in a child?  Would you prepare for me the 
environment for the development of my talents?{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Is society }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 even}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  ready for that?  And again it might say, {\u8220\'93}How do \softline
you plan to bring me up?  Have you any plans for my life and my \softline
development?  Am I to be a chimney sweep thrust out to earn my own \softline
living, or am I to have possibilities of perhaps being a president?{\u8221\'94}  \softline
And again I think it would say, {\u8220\'93}What is your wage?  What kind of \softline
table do you set?  How many children have you got already?{\u8221\'94}  And when \softline
the answer would {\u8220\'93}Eight{\u8221\'94}, I think the average intelligent child would \softline
say, {\u8220\'93}No thank you.{\u8221\'94}  (Laughter.)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Now we all know that we have very stringent and rigid immigration \softline
laws in this country, by which we keep out of this }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 country}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  people, \softline
persons that, -- well, that we just don{\u8217\'92}t want here; we keep out those \softline
individuals who will become a burden upon the state; who won{\u8217\'92}t let \softline
into the country an insane person or a diseased person; we won{\u8217\'92}t let \softline
in a pauper; there has to be a certain amount of money that you must \softline
have in order to come into this country; you have to have somebody \softline
more or less responsible for you; and I think -- if I am not mistaken \softline
-- that we don{\u8217\'92}t let people in if we don{\u8217\'92}t like their ideas.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab But what about the enemy from within?  Anyone in this country can \softline
become a father or mother.  It makes no difference if you are \softline
diseased, if you are a pauper, if you are insane, no responsibility -- \softline
no possibility of bringing up a child, or feeding it, no development \softline
of character for understanding the child.  You can be cruel, you can \softline
be anything {\f2 \'38}in{\f2 \'39}any stage of {\f2 \'38}mental{\f2 \'39}development, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}yet{\f2 \'39}you are \softline
allowed to be a parent; and I think it is time that if we recognize \softline
that it is not right to bring individuals into this country in order 
to protect ourselves from them, then I think it is also necessary for \softline
us to protect ourselves from within.  (Applause).\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Now many people ask us, in talking about this subject, they say \softline
{\u8220\'93}Do the people really want Birth Control?{\u8221\'94}  -- People who have perhaps \softline
lived and enjoyed the existence of only their own kind of people do \softline
not recognize how desperate the women who are having children too \softline
often, how desperate they have become, and how they reach out to see \softline
information.  Within the last week we have received within our \softline
organization 1200 letters from mothers, and the letters are about like \softline
these, -- I have just brought two of them to show you the nature of \softline
the letters, 1,200 of which we receive practically every year.  The \softline
first one is:\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab \tab {\u8220\'93}I was married when I was a girl of only 17.  There were 13 \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab children of us.  My father always drank and we had to go to \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab work very young, myself when I was 11 years old, caring for \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab the boarders in a large boarding house.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab \tab \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab \tab I have been married eight years.  My first child was only a \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab six months baby.  She only lived three days.  She was born \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab in July and about January the first a miscarriage.  The next \softline
\ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab January  a little girl was born; in about four months \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab another miscarriage; and then the next January 27 another \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab girl; 21 months and a boy, who is now two years old; and I \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab have had two miscarriages since then.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab \tab \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab \tab I have never had a chance to regain my real strength.  When \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab my second child was born I suffered a week from paralysis \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab and I said then if I was ever that way again I would \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab \ul0 \tab commit suicide.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \par
}\pard \fs22\qc\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 (Second letter)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \par
}\pard \fs22\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab These are just illustrations of the thousands and thousands of \softline
mothers who reach out their hands and they say {\u8220\'93}Please help me.{\u8221\'94}  What \softline
do they ask?  They only ask a chance to bring up their children, those \softline
they have already got.  They ask just for a little rest for \softline
themselves.  Many of them say {\u8220\'93}I am already the mother of ten \softline
children.{\u8221\'94}  Sometimes they say they have had 20 pregnancies.  Again \softline
they say they have had 15 births and they have six children living.  \softline
And the story is {\u8220\'93}I just want a chance to rest.  I want one night{\u8217\'92}s \softline
sleep before I die.{\u8221\'94}  And they tell how night after night they get up \softline
to get a drink of water.  And they never have one night{\u8217\'92}s rest from \softline
the time they become a mother until they pass out of life.  This is \softline
all they ask,-- a chance to know their husbands, a chance to be a real \softline
mother to their children.  And it seems to me as I look out on the \softline
world that every agency of church and state of society should be at \softline
the }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 fight}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}feet{\f2 \'39}of these women, should be glad to help }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 them}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 , to assist \softline
them, to just get a little out of life, to be the real mothers that we \softline
want them to be.  It seems very little to ask, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 because}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  can any mother \softline
serve society when she }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 nearly died by having one child}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}would rather \softline
die than have another child{\f2 \'39}?  Can she serve society by having other 
children?  I don{\u8217\'92}t think so.  I think that is the least we can do for \softline
these mothers.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  many of us in working out these problems and in planning for \softline
a better civilization and a better society and meeting these problems \softline
fairly and squarely we have thought out some general rules that really \softline
should apply to make for a better civilization.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab I believe there are eight definite reasons when women should not \softline
have children: the first is, I think that no parents should have \softline
children when they themselves have diseases, transmissible diseases or \softline
when there is insanity, feeble-mindedness or epilepsy in their family.  \softline
That seems a very matter of fact and east thing to ask and to demand; \softline
second, I believe that mothers or women should not be allowed to \softline
become pregnant while the mother is suffering from tuberculosis and \softline
any {\f2 \'38}kidney{\f2 \'39}disease, heart disease or pelvic deformities; she should \softline
not become pregnant until these diseases are cured; third, a woman or \softline
couple should not have children when the children they have already \softline
are not normal, even though they themselves are normal, but the \softline
children they have are subnormal.  We know that these diseases go far \softline
back, and it is a call, a symptom and a sign that they should not have \softline
more when these that they already have are not up to standards; again, \softline
I believe that there should be at least two, if not three years apart \softline
from the births of children.  A woman should have at least a year to \softline
recuperate from the strain and ordeal of the birth of one child; she \softline
should have a year to rest and try to prepare for the coming of the \softline
next child.  Again, I think that today we want more than just the \softline
physical operation of bringing children into the world; we want 
children to have some of the development, some of the benefits of our \softline
intellectual development; so that, I believe that young girls should \softline
not have children.  A women should be at least 22 if not 23 years old.  \softline
Not that a woman could not give birth to perfectly healthy children \softline
younger.  She can.  We have seen them even at 11 and 15 giving birth \softline
to perfectly healthy children; but after all, the adolescent period \softline
has not passed until the 22d or 23d year and it seems to me that it is \softline
no longer necessary nor good for women to become mothers until they \softline
have passed through the adolescent period, until the physical, the \softline
mental and we might say the psychic side of her nature have developed \softline
and }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 have been}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}all{\f2 \'39}interlocked.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab And again we say that parents should not become parents until \softline
their economic condition is such that they can give to children the \softline
best possible advantages of the day.  I also believe that a woman \softline
should not have children until she is well rested, not while she is \softline
fatigues from early labors, for instance, many children who come to \softline
work early, young girls who go to work at 10, 12 and 13 years, before \softline
she becomes a mother.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab I found in Scotland in one district that was practically built up \softline
during the war that out of 5,000 mothers or parents who were there, \softline
all having small families because they were all quite young, the \softline
teacher said that 85% of the first children born of these parents \softline
would fall to sleep some time during the day at school; and in her \softline
calculations and mine we found that these mothers, almost all of them, \softline
had been to work in the Lancashire cotton districts and had gone to \softline
work when they were 9 and 10 years old.  The mothers were always 
tired.  They had never had a chance to rest and they were married and \softline
became mothers almost immediately after marriage.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab And again,-- and perhaps many of you will not agree with this, \softline
but I believe that no young couple should have parenthood thrust upon \softline
them; and that, furthermore, they should not have children for at \softline
least two years after they are married.  Now I believe in early \softline
marriages, but I }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 always}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}also{\f2 \'39}believe in building up the marriage \softline
relation; I believe in building up the home }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 as a}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}in{\f2 \'39}preparation, as a \softline
nest for the coming of the children that are wanted.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now,}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  I have seen and I believe that if two young people entering \softline
into the marriage state had a year or two years to know each other, to \softline
play together, to read together, to develop their love lives, I \softline
believe that there would be a finer, and a stronger bond between then; \softline
I believe also that the waiting and the building up of this bond of \softline
love and harmony between them would intensify the desire for \softline
maternity.  I have seen it through the war when many young women \softline
wanting to be married and dreading the fact that the man they loved \softline
would be called away, did not want to have children under those \softline
conditions and we have seen many cases where that same woman said: {\u8220\'93}I \softline
am not never to be a mother; I don{\u8217\'92}t believe I would understand \softline
children and I have no particular maternal instinct in myself.{\u8221\'94}  We \softline
have definitely seen that most of those women have come back and said \softline
{\u8220\'93}This thing has awakened in me.  I want to have children.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 And [word obscured]}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  we believe in waiting for a year or two after \softline
marriage before parenthood comes }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 [word obscured] them.}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now, often [all]}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 , when you look out and when you see what we do 
today, we pick out our young girls and our boys and we bring up our \softline
daughters }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 with an instinct of rebellion about}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}to regard with \softline
resentment{\f2 \'39}everything concerning the {\f2 \'38}sex{\f2 \'39} relations }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 of men and women;}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  \softline
and then, miraculously, we put a marriage certificate in that girl{\u8217\'92}s \softline
hands, and }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 we}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  think that everything is going to be beautiful.  It \softline
doesn{\u8217\'92}t work that way.  Love is like a plant; it has to be nurtured; \softline
it has to be developed; it has to be cared for.  It is not a thing \softline
that just happens accidentally.  And we believe in building up a }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 that}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  \softline
{\f2 \'38}a{\f2 \'39}love relationship before a child is called into being.  These are \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 practically}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}some of{\f2 \'39}the {\f2 \'38}simple{\f2 \'39} rules {\f2 \'38}of life{\f2 \'39} we say that people \softline
should }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 have applied}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}apply{\f2 \'39}to themselves if they desire to make for \softline
happier homes and also to take part in being part of a hardier and \softline
healthier race.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  most of us believe that Birth Control might be a good thing \softline
in some cases, but we all more or less have some objections, and I am \softline
not going to take up the time for all these objections, but I am just \softline
going to dwell upon one or two of them: the first objection that is \softline
raised almost universally -- I found the same objection in Japan and \softline
in China; you find it everywhere -- the objection is that if women \softline
have information to prevent conception, -- in other words, if they \softline
know how to avoid having children, -- that the race will die out, }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 that \softline
we wont have children}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}that there will be race suicide{\f2 \'39}.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now}{\plain \fs22 \shad\revised\f1\fs22  }{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 I believe that is absolutely false.  I think that in the \softline
first place the knowledge of Birth Control does not interfere in any \softline
way with anyone who desires a big family.  We only hope to bring it to \softline
those who don{\u8217\'92}t want to have a big family; and we say as we see it is 
a sound principle, that we believe that those who don{\u8217\'92}t want to have a \softline
big family should have the same privilege as those who do want to have \softline
a big family.  That is all.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Now}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  The instinct of maternity is not a thing that can be wiped \softline
out or killed by such a simple thing as knowledge.  The instinct is \softline
too old; and if any of you have seen the cases that I have seen in my \softline
gynecological work,-- women who thought they could not become mothers, \softline
if you could see and know the agony and pain that they have endured in \softline
going though operations where there has only been one chance in a \softline
hundred that that operation would result in giving that women the \softline
power of maternity!  And yet hundreds and hundreds of these women take \softline
that one chance.  The maternal instinct is very deep and one of the \softline
reasons today }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 that}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}why{\f2 \'39} {\f2 \'38}({\f2 \'39}I believe{\f2 \'38}){\f2 \'39}we have small families, \softline
sometimes only one child in a family, is because that child has come \softline
too quickly into that woman{\u8217\'92}s life.  She has never had a chance to \softline
develop herself; she has been first a girl, then a mother.  This wife \softline
in her, the woman in her had never had a chance to evolve; }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and also \softline
any}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}the fact that motherhood was accidental or enforced make \softline
that{\f2 \'39}condition }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 thrust upon us becomes}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  abhorrent to }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 us}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}her{\f2 \'39}.  If she \softline
had waited for a time after her marriage, if there had been a chance \softline
to develop that maternal instinct in her, motherhood would have been a \softline
joy to her and not a dread and a fear.  And }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 [word obscured]}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  I believe \softline
that this knowledge {\f2 \'38}of BC will increase the desire for motherhood{\f2 \'39} }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 the \softline
instinct will be developed}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 .  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Also we found in the high birth-rate and low birth-rate countries \softline
this fact,-- that in the high birth-rate countries, like China, where 
there has been no {\f2 \'38}conscious{\f2 \'39}Birth Control }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 applied}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  where women have \softline
brought to birth children as often as nature has allowed it, the \softline
population has remained practically stationary for some hundred years.  \softline
On the other hand, the low birth-rate countries, with the exception of \softline
France, which I will take up later, the low birth-rate countries, like \softline
England and Germany, Holland, New Zealand, and Australia, these \softline
countries, while the birth-rate has been lower and has continued to be \softline
lower, the infant mortality and the general death-rate have also been \softline
lower; consequently the population has increased.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab And certainly we have three very good examples of what Birth-Control, when nationally applied and controlled, can do to disprove \softline
the argument of race suicide in such countries as Holland and New \softline
Zealand and Australia. for, in Holland, for instance, in 35 years her \softline
birth-rate has decreased; her infant mortality in Amsterdam, Rotterdam \softline
and the Hague is lowest of any }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 states}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}cities{\f2 \'39}in the world, and this \softline
{\f2 \'38}is{\f2 \'39}particularly so since Birth Control has been established there }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 in \softline
cities}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 .  Holland has the fastest increasing population of any country \softline
in Europe.  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 She also has a very queer thing that has developed there \softline
that we cannot find in any other country and that is taken from the \softline
army statistics in 1915:-- she not only had the highest military \softline
standing but she had the highest male stature in these 40 years.  So}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  \softline
that Birth Control goes for race improvement as well as increasing the \softline
population.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab The race suicide theory simply does not stand.  And besides, I \softline
often say to people who say that they are standing for bigger \softline
populations, they want more people to justify our existence, they will 
not be consistent, because if they were consistent they might stand \softline
for polygamy.  There is no quicker way in the world of getting big \softline
families than through polygamy; but it doesn{\u8217\'92}t stand; and they don{\u8217\'92}t \softline
really stand for big families or increased population.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Another objection is that it is going to lead to immorality.  \softline
That is a very serious objection and one that we cannot pass over \softline
lightly.  It is }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}this aspect of the{\f2 \'39}subject which took me to Europe \softline
before Birth Control was }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 taken up}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}canceled{\f2 \'39}in the United States.  I \softline
found, for instance, in Japan, that my son and I had to revise our \softline
ideas of morality.  I found that the things we found immoral here were \softline
found very moral in Japan.  Morality today has been immorality a \softline
hundred years ago and immorality today is likely to be morality a \softline
hundred years from now.  I think it is an insult to suggest that our \softline
women will become promiscuous if they have knowledge or if they have \softline
not the fear of the result to keep them moral.  In other words, you \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 have got to be}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}the inference is that a woman must{\f2 \'39}be kept ignorant to \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 be kept living}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}live{\f2 \'39}a clean life.  I don{\u8217\'92}t believe that is true.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Again, we might say that everything can be mis-used.  All \softline
knowledge can be mis-used; we know that.  Everything today has some \softline
mis-use of it.  But we don{\u8217\'92}t stop the progress of humanity because of \softline
the few who mis-use things.  Automobiles can be mis-used; certainly \softline
razors can be mis-used, and as a matter of fact, when razors were \softline
first put on the market there was just the same objection.  In the old \softline
days {\f2 \'38}a{\f2 \'39}man{\f2 \'38}could not shave himself only{\f2 \'39}a doctor }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 had to shave a man \softline
secretly }{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 {\f2 \'38}that privilege; later {\f2 \'39}they had a public barber; and \softline
gradually men began to buy razors and shave themselves.  And they 
said, {\u8220\'93}Why, if you let any man have a razor }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 and}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}to{\f2 \'39}shave }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 a man}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  he will \softline
cut the throat of the man he }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 is mad with }{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 {\f2 \'38}quarrels with{\f2 \'39}.{\u8221\'94}  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 We know the \softline
whole}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}The{\f2 \'39}secret of life is to teach people the proper use of \softline
knowledge of Birth Control.  We have got to teach {\f2 \'38}young people{\f2 \'39}the \softline
proper use {\f2 \'38}of knowledge{\f2 \'39}.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Again, we found in Holland, instead of increasing immorality it \softline
}{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 made}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  increased }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 in}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}the{\f2 \'39}marriage {\f2 \'38}rate{\f2 \'39}.  Young people were not afraid \softline
to get married and }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 they}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  were not afraid of a big family }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 that}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  they \softline
could not support.  In 1914 I went to the Central Bureau of the Hague \softline
and I was challenged to find a native woman alive in Holland at that \softline
time who was a prostitute.  The first thing the parents do when they \softline
see the boy and girl interested in each other, if they are both of the \softline
families that they like, they encourage an early marriage and then \softline
they get their information from the Birth Control Clinics, of which \softline
there are 55 in that little country today.  And they are impressed \softline
with the responsibility of having children; they are told that to have \softline
a child is the greatest responsibility in the world and you have no \softline
moral right to have children that you cannot take care of; you have no \softline
right to have more children than you can support; you should not just \softline
have children and have your neighbor bring them up.  And so the \softline
responsibility of parenthood is impressed upon the young couple very \softline
early.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab They look upon it, and have even used the argument to me, {\u8220\'93}Why \softline
should we have children any more than we should have an automobile?  \softline
It isn{\u8217\'92}t only the having it here but it is the keeping it up.{\u8221\'94}  And \softline
this is the way the Dutch mind looks upon having children.  It has not 
increased immorality; it has increased morality.  Marriages are \softline
popular; there has been an increase of total marriages.  Immorality \softline
and prostitution have decreased.  By this I don{\u8217\'92}t want anyone wo think \softline
there is no prostitution in Holland.  There was prostitution in \softline
Holland even then; but they told me it was professionals that came in \softline
from France and Germany to catch the trade.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Whether those same facts and statistics stand together today I \softline
don{\u8217\'92}t know.  It may be that the war has changed the conditions; but up \softline
to 1914 that was the condition in Holland.  After all, we know that \softline
early marriages will do just that.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Again, we find that 77% of the men who frequent houses of \softline
prostitution are married men.  Now, let us see why that is.  In my own \softline
nursing experience I found a very extraordinary thing developing in \softline
this country, and that is, the wrong concept of the relations of \softline
marriage, the wrong concept of the whole process of creation.  Women \softline
have developed almost a cloak of frigidity and they have an ideal in \softline
that frigidity; they believe that is the natural and right and \softline
spiritual way to be.  I contradict that and I don{\u8217\'92}t believe that that \softline
is the condition to create in themselves or that is is going to make \softline
for happiness in the home.  And I also found that a woman would say to \softline
me, {\u8220\'93}Well, my husband is a perfectly fine man; he is one of the best \softline
in the world; but if only, well, if only this relationship of marriage \softline
did not exist I would be perfectly happy.{\u8221\'94}  Now that man, on the other \softline
hand, is a creature of evolution of nature and of expression.  And we \softline
find there is one of the causes for this great percentage of men who \softline
visit prostitutes.  So that we say that Birth Control knowledge back 
of that is going to help that woman to remove from her the fear of \softline
pregnancy because back of that frigidity is often the fear of \softline
pregnancy.  She has standards to live up to; she has her life which \softline
she is developing and she does not want a big family; and the \softline
consequence is that she usually drives her husband away from her.  \softline
They do not develop together fully; and immorality, or rather, lack of \softline
Birth Control is the cause of immorality in the home as well as out of \softline
the home.  We believe that Birth Control is going to build up the \softline
home; it is going to stand for early marriages and for finer \softline
companionship in the home after marriage.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab There is only one other objection that I am going to take up and \softline
that is that people say, {\u8220\'93}Wouldn{\u8217\'92}t you do much better for the world if \softline
you were talking about self control rather than birth control?{\u8221\'94}  \softline
Perhaps I would; I don{\u8217\'92}t know; but let us look at what one means by \softline
control.  After all, we all have to be controlled; I believe in self \softline
control; I believe in it most decidedly, most empathetically; but I \softline
believe in it as part of our development in social evolution.  We have \softline
to be controlled.  I also believe in it as part of the beauty of \softline
marriage and of our comeradeship in marriage: but I don{\u8217\'92}t believe in \softline
it is a good nor right method of Birth Control.  I don{\u8217\'92}t believe it is \softline
the best method of Birth Control.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Now, what do they mean, to be very frank.  Let us look at these \softline
things frankly.  It may mean when they say control, they may mean that \softline
the relation of marriage or the union of marriage should take place \softline
only for pro-creation.  Well, that means that the average normal \softline
people who can only afford to have two or three children, to bring 
them up properly, that this relationship, which is allied to the \softline
divine, shall take place in your lives but two or three times.  I \softline
think that is unduly harsh and unnecessary and is also a condition \softline
that cannot be lived up to by the average normal people.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Secondly, we must remember that even the most controlled people -- and I have many cases in mind where people are controlled to the \softline
fullest of their ability -- and yet with only one union a year there \softline
have been big families because that is all it takes to have one child, \softline
-- a year and a half, -- and you can have 15 or 16 children in a life-time.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Again, they say they believe that there is a certain period in a \softline
woman{\u8217\'92}s development when she is partly or wholly sterile; and this is \softline
untrue; it is absolutely untrue as applied to every woman.  If it were \softline
true and if that is what is meant by control there might be some \softline
possibility of its being enacted; but when it is absolutely denied by \softline
the medical profession that this state exists in the average woman ,-- \softline
in fact, they say it is only one percent of women who are at this time \softline
partly sterile,-- so we say that control instead of birth control is \softline
not practicable.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Here is a case that came to me, a {\f2 \'38}social{\f2 \'39}worker has a very \softline
severe cardiac case; the woman was suffering from heart trouble and \softline
was pregnant.  This social worker was rather annoyed at this \softline
condition, so she took it upon herself to call upon }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 this}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}husband of \softline
the woman{\f2 \'39} on Sunday when he was at home.  He was a young man about 32, \softline
a very fine, decent man and he loved his wife and loved his children; \softline
he was what his wife called a }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 home body}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}good man{\f2 \'39}.{\u8221\'94}  He was a truck 
driver.  This little nurse went to him and }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 she}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  told him he was taking \softline
his wife{\u8217\'92}s life in his hands if she had another child.  The man was \softline
amazed.  What could he do?  And this nurse, after calling him a few \softline
uncomplimentary names, said he should control himself.  He said he \softline
would; it was the last thing he wanted to do to brung his wife to the \softline
grave.  So the nurse went on; they had just a few }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 farms}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}rooms{\f2 \'39}there.  \softline
But in a short time, less than three months, this little wife came \softline
back to the social worker and she said to her {\u8220\'93}You have ruined my \softline
husband; I had a good husband, a good man who never struck me, who \softline
never struck the children, but was always home; who gave me his money \softline
and we were happy together.  Now I have a man who has turned into a \softline
brute; he }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 corrected}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}beat{\f2 \'39}one of the children and when I tried to plead \softline
with him he struck me.  He is never home; he is always out on the \softline
corner with }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 one}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}some{\f2 \'39}of the loafers.{\u8221\'94}  And she said {\u8220\'93}It is your fault; \softline
something that you said to him; and he has not been the same with me.  \softline
I would rather have a child every year and have the love of my \softline
husband, than the kind of man you have made.{\u8221\'94}  This social worker was \softline
very much disturbed; she went to one of the physicians in charge and \softline
asked him about this case, and he said, {\u8220\'93}That is perfectly right; that \softline
is just exactly what would happen.{\u8221\'94}  This man }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 who}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  was a primitive sort \softline
of man was }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 simply}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  thrust out of one state of his evolution and put \softline
into another.  It was suppression, {\f2 \'38}from without self control is{\f2 \'39}a \softline
condition that we have to live up to, that we have to evolve to.  This \softline
is what self-control is; it is not a thing that can be thrust upon one \softline
from without; it must be worked up from within.  Control is a \softline
beautiful thing which we should evolve to and develop within 
ourselves; but it is not either }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 a}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  practical for all people nor is it \softline
the best or the most harmless method of Birth Control.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab There are many,-- in fact, I want to say there are three kinds of \softline
Birth Control -- so many people have thought the methods of Birth \softline
Control would be discussed from the platform -- it has never been our \softline
method or custom to discuss them here.  We want to establish clinics \softline
in all thickly populated communities.  We want then as they have them \softline
in Holland; they also have them in England, and also in China; and we \softline
in the United States still have none.  We want these to be the places \softline
with doctors and trained nurses in charge so that women or men may \softline
come there and receive individual instruction suitable to fit \softline
{\f2 \'38}the{\f2 \'39}individual womans case.  We want to raise this subject of Birth \softline
Control from the gutter where it has been placed by your laws.  We \softline
want to raise it to the same plane with other scientific measures.  \softline
There are three methods: [written in margin] {\f2 \'38}continue: sterilization \softline
and means that prevent contraception{\f2 \'39} one method is continence or \softline
celibacy, perhaps this in }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 best}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}safest{\f2 \'39}we have ever }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 [illegible]}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  \softline
{\f2 \'38}known{\f2 \'39}.  }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 Do you know that in your state that is a crime -- to live a \softline
celibate today?  Because your law says that you cannot use methods of \softline
Birth Control, and yet there is not a better method of Birth Control \softline
known in all the world today than to remain single.  So all you single \softline
people who are over the age of maturity should be imprisoned.  But, as \softline
Mrs. Porritt said, that is unique.  You have that very unique law.  \softline
Yet, continence is a method; sterilization is a method -- and there \softline
are two kinds, surgical}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  and that }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 as}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}which is{\f2 \'39}induced by the X-ray.  \softline
There is no doubt that the X-ray is going to }{\plain \fs22 \strike\f1\fs22 take}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22  {\f2 \'38}play{\f2 \'39}a very 
important part in the whole process of Birth Control in the future.  \softline
It is said they are now developing the X-ray to such an extent that \softline
they will in time be able to control the dosage; that is, that a woman \softline
suffering from tuberculosis should not become a mother until she is \softline
cured, that she can be made sterile by the X-ray for a period of three \softline
to five years and when she is cured then the power of motherhood would \softline
return to her.  If this is perfected it will be one perhaps of the \softline
best methods of Birth Control.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Then from continence and sterilization we come to the medicinal \softline
and mechanical methods of birth Control which would be common in \softline
public clinics which we want the physicians to give as applied to each \softline
individual, because every individual woman is different.  A woman who \softline
has had wine or ten children and who has not perhaps had the best \softline
surgical care after the birth of her children must have different \softline
advice and different instruction from the women who has had only one \softline
or two children.  So we want to make this instruction individual, have \softline
it scientific, have it so the poorest woman can have the best \softline
information to her needs, physical, economical and often spiritual, \softline
because we want to direct this woman for the best interests of the \softline
race.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Now friends, after eight months{\u8217\'92} trip around the world I have \softline
found this, that the people of all the world believe in and want to \softline
practice Birth Control.  It is evidently all a process of \softline
responsibility.  We want to be responsible for our acts.  The people \softline
of China, of Japan, of India, of all the European countries, look to \softline
this as to a tolerance, while the governments of the same countries 
are blind to its improvement in reducing taxation, in reducing the \softline
burdens of charities.  \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Again we find churches are very timid in coming out and taking a \softline
stand for it, but we have had a few illuminating examples, such as \softline
{\f2 \'38}Lord Dawson{\f2 \'39} physician who came to the conference at Lambeth last \softline
year, and took his stand firmly for Birth Control and told the people \softline
that unless they listened to them, they might just as well close their \softline
doors.  Then there is Dean Inge of St. Paul{\u8217\'92}s Cathedral.  You have men \softline
like H.G. Wells, Gilbert Murray of Oxford, Bertrand Russell, Harold \softline
Cox.  You have some of the finest thinking men in England; and John \softline
Maynard Mays is also standing for Birth Control.  He told me in London \softline
that this subject of Birth Control was a most important subject on the \softline
political horizon and he said unless we are going to recognize the \softline
population question, we may as well throw all our peace treaties and \softline
our agreements between nations in the waste paper basket; they can \softline
never come to anything until the population question is recognized.  \softline
This is not only an individual problem, it is not only a national \softline
problem, it is a race, it is a world problem.  I agree with H.G. \softline
Wells, who says in his last book that the whole world is crammed with \softline
meaningless lives, hordes of people who are born, who live, who die, \softline
and have done nothing to move the race forward one iota.  There have \softline
been repetitions, all that has been said before; all that they have \softline
done better before.  They come and use up the energies and the \softline
resources of the earth.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab Now on the other hand, what we are trying to do is to make for a \softline
better world, and we maintain that the greatness of a country cannot 
be measured by the size of its population.  You have got to ask \softline
yourself, {\u8220\'93}Is your country breeding great men and women?  Is it \softline
creating immortal records of poetry, art and science, and are these \softline
being used for the development of mankind?{\u8221\'94}  We want to make the world \softline
a saner, better, cleaner place.  We are fighting for the women and the \softline
children if this generation; we are fighting for the women and \softline
children and the men of the next generation; and we want to safeguard \softline
everything that affects the dignity of motherhood.  We also want to \softline
raise motherhood from the degradation and servility and sex slavery to \softline
a glorified privilege.  We want to free woman from incessant child \softline
bearing; we want to free her from undesired pregnancy.  We want \softline
children conceived in love and to be born only when they are wanted.  \softline
Then we want to make these bodies of ours holy temples; we want to \softline
make them fit and perfect symbols that will be ready when examined to \softline
take its part in the mystery of material being.\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 (Applause)\par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22    \par
}{\plain \fs22 \f1\fs22 \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab  \par
}}