{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil \fcharset2 \fprq2 WP MathA;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\ftnrstcont\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstcont\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \margtsxn1680\headery1440\footery1440 
{\header \fs24\pard \fs24\tqr\tx9360
\tab 236120/\chpgn \par \pard \fs24
\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24\qc 
THIS BUSINESS OF BEARING BABIES\par
\par
\pard \fs24\qr 
[{\plain \fs24 \i 1925}{\plain \fs24 ]\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \tab We find a new generation of young American wives, the vast majority of whom have had \softline
business experience before marriage, is beginning to approach the central problem of life-- that \softline
of Motherhood, in a new manner.  In a word, these women, taught efficiency in the world of \softline
commerce and industry, are trying to put the business of bearing babies on a basis of intelligent \softline
efficiency.  These mothers of the aeroplane, motor car and radio age refuse to conduct the most \softline
vital and important function of life as it was conducted in the cave-dwelling period-- which was \softline
by leaving the whole baby business to chance!\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Today these new mothers refuse to be thoughtlessly wasteful of their most precious \softline
possessions, mother-power and child life.  The husbands, too, realize more fully that child \softline
bearing is a costly venture-- both in previous lives and money.  That it can not be indulged in \softline
carelessly, incessantly, continuously, without thought of the lives of mother and child.  A \softline
generation ago it cost approximately ten dollars apiece to bring a baby into the world, but the \softline
mothers of today, who better trained in business methods and efficiency, have placed a higher \softline
value on child bearing than the monetary value of the past and insist that children shall have a \softline
proper start in life-- that thought and consideration shall be given them not only after they are \softline
born, not only while they are in utero, but before they are conceived.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \strike We}{\plain \fs24  {\f1 \'38}They{\f1 \'39}insist also that mothers shall not be drained of vitality and happiness by \softline
incessant }{\plain \fs24 \strike child bearing}{\plain \fs24  {\f1 \'38}pregnancies{\f1 \'39}, but shall bring to {\f1 \'38}Motherhood{\f1 \'39}}{\plain \fs24 \strike this}{\plain \fs24  {\f1 \'38}}{\plain \fs24 \strike fruition}{\plain \fs24 {\f1 \'39}a sense of \softline
joy and }{\plain \fs24 \strike a}{\plain \fs24  {\f1 \'38}the{\f1 \'39}full flowering of womanhood.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The mothers and fathers of this new generation accept Birth Control as a wholesome 
sane-minded philosophy, because through it there can be healthier, stronger, happier babies, \softline
because to them Birth Control means conservation of mother-power and child life.{}{\plain \fs24 \super 1{\footnote \pard \fs24
{\ul0 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \super 1}{}{\plain \fs24  This passage from {\u8220\'93}Birth Control{\u8221\'94} to {\u8220\'93}child life{\u8221\'94} is crossed out.\par
}\pard \fs24\sa240 
{\plain \fs24  }}}
}{\plain \fs24   {\f1 \'38}vital \softline
powers{\f1 \'39}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The thousands of mothers who come requesting advice demonstrate beyond the shadow \softline
of a doubt, that birth control movement has arisen in response to a real need of thousands and \softline
thousands of wives and mothers, some of whom have been grievously wounded in the battle of \softline
life.  Emergency measures are all we are allowed to give, }{\plain \fs24 \strike but}{\plain \fs24  {\f1 \'38}and{\f1 \'39}they are not sufficient.  We \softline
must plan a programme of prevention.  The traditional method is wasteful of everything \softline
civilization holds most precious, wasteful of lives of mothers and children, wasteful of money, \softline
wasteful of time, wasteful of vital energies.  Fortunately we have discovered such a plan of \softline
prevention.  Its neucleus lies in the Birth Control Clinic.  These Clinics have already \softline
demonstrated their practicability and the tangible relief 10,000 suffering women have derived \softline
from them.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The seed of the clinic idea has been sown, despite the rockiness of the soil, and the \softline
obstructions placed in its way.  The seed has germinated.  We must now insure its growth, its \softline
development, its eventual blossoming into maturity.  To rest content with the Birth Control clinic \softline
as an ameliorative or local instrument of maternity welfare, would be a sad confession of a \softline
limited vision of its innate potentialities.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab As I see it, the Birth Control Clinic can be developed into the finest and surest method of \softline
a type of adult education that is fundamentally educational and basically adult.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul0 \tab To educate mens to {\u8220\'93}lead out{\u8221\'94}.  Certainly the thousands of mothers who appeal to the \softline
clinic for help convince me that here is a vast reservoir of deep human interest asking to be {\u8220\'93}led \softline
forth{\u8221\'94} out of the darkness of despair and ignorance into the light of sane living and knowledge.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab There is nothing more encouraging to the birth control worker than to witness the gradual \softline
change from the salve mother into a free and developing adult woman.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The education of the Birth Control Clinic when successfully absorbed is demonstrated in \softline
the health of children, properly spaced, the lessening of abortions, thereby sparing the vital \softline
energies of the mother.  Not only does it help in increasing the efficiency of women as mothers, \softline
but it points the way to happier and, therefore, more enduring marital relationships of man wife. {}{\plain \fs24 \super 2{\footnote \pard \fs24\sa240 
{\ul0 \tab }{\plain \fs24 \super 2}{}{\plain \fs24  This whole paragraph is crossed out with one diagonal line.  }}}
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Here perhaps is the most constructive aim and activity of the Clinic.  To prevent marital \softline
shipwrecks by preventing unhappiness and misery rather than to alleviate conditions that should \softline
never have been allowed to develop.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab When we stop to consider the vast sum total of misery, unhappiness and misspent energy \softline
out of some physical or mental maladjustment in married persons, of the cost not merely to the \softline
two individuals, but to society at large, we can but wonder why, in the very interest of human and \softline
social economy, sexual education-- no less than reading, writing and arithmetic-- has not been \softline
made compulsory by law.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Would it not have been more economical in the long run, than the vast complicated \softline
administration of divorce laws, or the maintenance of foundling homes and Domestic Courts and \softline
Welfare Centers?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24
}