{\rtf1\ansi \deflang1033\deff0{\fonttbl
{\f0\froman \fcharset0 \fprq2 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\stylesheet{\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
}\notabind\margl1440\margr1440\hyphhotz936\ftnbj\fet2\ftnrstpg\aftnnar\viewkind1\lytprtmet\subfontbysize \sectd \margtsxn1680\headery1440\footery1440\endnhere\endnhere 
{\header \fs24\pard \fs24\tqr\tx9360
\tab 320229/\chpgn \par \pard \fs24
\par }
{\*\pnseclvl1\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl2\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl3\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcrm\pnstart1{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pndec\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1}

{\field{\*\fldinst {\lang4105  SEQ CHAPTER \\h \\r 1}}{\fldrslt }}\pard \fs24\qc 
PASSPORTS FOR BABIES\par
\par
\pard \fs24\qr 
[{\plain \fs24 \i February, 1926}{\plain \fs24 ]\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}\pard \fs24\sl480\slmult1 
{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Of course,{\u8221\'94} said the distinguished professor, {\u8220\'93}we all believe in Birth Control.  There is \softline
no need to talk about it.  The trouble in this country is that those who can afford to have large \softline
families limit the number of their children, while the unfit keep steadily on recklessly populating \softline
our lunatic asylums with imbeciles, idiots, and morons, and providing our prisons with inmates.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}The trouble with you people,{\u8221\'94} continued the professor, {\u8220\'93}ist hat you do not reach those \softline
who should be taught the hygiene and technique of contraception.  The only way to strike a \softline
balance is for the normal, healthy, fit elements of American society to have large families, so that \softline
our country won{\u8217\'92}t be swamped by the unfit.{\u8221\'94}  The professor, by the way, seemed to have \softline
forgotten that he himself was {\u8220\'93}fit,{\u8221\'94} healthy, wealthy-- the father of only two children.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}I see what you mean,{\u8221\'94} I answered.  {\u8220\'93}A sort of cradle competition between the fit and the \softline
unfit.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Call it what you will,{\u8221\'94} he retorted.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}How long would the fit remain fit,{\u8221\'94} I asked, {\u8220\'93}if they entered this race, full speed ahead, \softline
bringing children into the world without any thought of spacing their offspring or providing them \softline
with food, shelter, and education?  Did you ever stop to think, my dear doctor, that perhaps the \softline
{\u8216\'91}fit,{\u8217\'92} as you call them-- the better classes, the mental and physical aristocrats-- may have risen \softline
from the ranks of poverty precisely because they have limited their families?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}They remain {\u8216\'91}fit{\u8217\'92} because they exercise foresight, respect good breeding, insist that their \softline
own children have an even better chance in life than they had.  What is such discipline and \softline
sacrifice but Birth Control?  Now you advocate the very opposite policy in family ethics.  Would 
you encourage the best families to spawn children with reckless and irresponsible rapidity?  Are \softline
you not holding the worst elements in our society up to them as examples?  But no sane or \softline
thoughtful parents would follow your advice.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Perhaps not,{\u8221\'94} he admitted reluctantly.  {\u8220\'93}But how do you expect to get your message of \softline
Birth Control to the people who need it?  To the ignorant, the irresponsible, the poverty-stricken?{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}It can and must be done,{\u8221\'94} I answered.  {\u8220\'93}All that we need is the cooperation of intelligent \softline
serious-minded American citizens.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In the dozen years I have been battling for the liberation of motherhood through Birth \softline
Control, the professor{\u8217\'92}s question has arisen almost daily.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In this paper I shall try to explain how this is possible, to show how the various obstacles \softline
that stand in the way of the widespread dissemination of this new education in hygiene and \softline
sanitation may ultimately be overcome.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The foremost duty of every American is to aid in the creation of a healthy, vigorous race \softline
of Americans.  If the American citizen remains passively indifferent to the obstacles which are \softline
now obstructing the road to the fulfillment of our racial destiny, he cannot be called a good \softline
citizen.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The chief obstacles at present are various state and federal laws forbidding the \softline
dissemination of contraceptive information, even by physicians.  Yet in many states, including \softline
Texas, Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Illinois, and others, there is no such prohibition for \softline
physicians.  These states are indeed fortunate in having escaped the blight of this near-sighted, \softline
hypocritical type of legislation fundamentally in conflict with constitutional rights of life, liberty, 
and the pursuit of happiness.  Such ill-advised enactments implicitly deny the right of every \softline
American child to be well-born, the right of every child to be born with an equal opportunity of \softline
development, or to be born under conditions guaranteeing to each a fair chance of education and \softline
growth into a sturdy American citizen, instead of being foredoomed from birth to become a \softline
burden upon and a menace to our national development.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In such fortunate states as Texas, for instance, there is only the obstacle of public \softline
indifference and inertia, and the opposition of reactionaries and perhaps certain religious \softline
organizations.  Granted that it would be possible to inaugurate a maternity school or clinic of the \softline
type already successful in such countries as Holland and Great Britain, what is the next step?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab At this point it is necessary to revise our ideas of the place of the physician in any \softline
American community.  It is said that in China you pay the doctor to keep you well.  In our \softline
country, the family physician is, as a rule, called only in cases of illness or emergency.  To-day \softline
we are beginning to change our whole attitude about doctors.  It is not a very rash prediction to \softline
assert that more and more we shall appeal to the doctor as a counselor of health rather than to \softline
seek remedies for petty maladies.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab To a certain extent this is the actual present situation of the relation of physician and \softline
patient.  Nowadays most young wives who are approaching the threshold of maternity go to the \softline
doctor for advice concerning the problems of gestation.  He counsels her concerning diet, \softline
exercise, rest, and all such problems.  These frequent consultations between the mother-to-be and \softline
her physician are hygienic precautions in the interest of the mother{\u8217\'92}s well-being and the baby{\u8217\'92}s \softline
health.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Surely there is nothing shocking in the idea that parents should extend the period of these 
consultations still further back.  In other words, that they should ask the doctor{\u8217\'92}s advice even \softline
before the conception of the child, and even before marriage, so that before this hazardous task is \softline
undertaken, the health of the parents, as well as their economic, physical, and spiritual health \softline
may be assured.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In other words, I believe that the day is not far distant when the physician shall be as \softline
intimately concerned in the matter of marriage-making and the task of parenthood as is the \softline
clergyman, the county, or the lawyer to-day.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The more one thinks of this possibility, the more inevitable it seems as the next necessary \softline
step of American civilization.  For what does civilization mean if not the increasing command of \softline
and control over all the factors of human life?  And control of reproduction, mastery of the \softline
quantity and the quality of the very stuff of life, the raw material of civilization, is the very first \softline
of these factors.  Animals are not permitted by breeders to bear young when they are unfit.  \softline
Surely American babies-- not some of them, but every last one of them-- should be assured the \softline
birthright of being as well born and as well cared for as calves and pigs!\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab As long as they do not involve the future of the race, and therefore the future of our great \softline
country, it may be admitted that the intimate relationships of married life are no one{\u8217\'92}s business \softline
but the participants.  But when a new life is concerned, when it is a question of brining no just a \softline
baby, but a new citizen into this county, all should be willing to accept the best biological advice \softline
concerning the proper time, place, and environment for this all-important event.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Our federal government is now beginning to take precautions about immigration, \softline
permitting only properly qualified foreigners to enter our gates, and those only in restricted \softline
numbers.  And yet within our gates, our chaotic laws and traditional prejudices encourage the 
entrance into these United States of ill-born, unfit, undesirable citizens.  Poor little victims who \softline
have neither pedigree nor passport!\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab This situation has suggested to my mind that it should be a point of honor with all \softline
American parents that babies should be provided with health passports!\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Passports for babies, beginning their perilous, adventurous voyage into this stormy old \softline
world of ours would insure at least a happy arrival, for such passports would mean that the baby \softline
had been conceived in love, born of a health mother{\u8217\'92}s conscious desire, and bringing with it the \softline
heritage of health.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The duty of the physician would be to represent the unborn child, to stand as the \softline
representative of public health and racial purity, and to offer his benevolent advice as spokesman \softline
for the child-to-be.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Sometimes, in moments of idle revery, I have wondered what would happen if there were \softline
some sort of a baby bureau, to which all prospective parents would have to apply and answer the \softline
questions of the unborn.  You would have to apply at these bureaus for a baby, just as you apply \softline
at an employment bureau for a cook, and there the wise baby-to-be would ask for references, and \softline
make certain, before it undertook the hazards of Life{\u8217\'92}s voyage, that these parents were desirable, \softline
the possessors of a happy home, and really desirous of a new baby.  Think of the question an \softline
intelligent baby might ask.  For instance:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Have you paid for your last baby yet?{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}How many children have you already?  Are you sure your hands are not already too full, \softline
and your pocketbook empty?  What are your plans for bringing me up?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Can you furnish a happy home for me?  Proper food?  A sunny nursery?  Love and 
affection and understanding?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Can you furnish a certificate of health?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Do you look upon children as a reward or a penalty? \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}What{\u8217\'92}s that you say?  Five children already?  Two dark rooms in the slums?  No!  Thank \softline
you!  I don{\u8217\'92}t care to be born at all if I cannot choose to be well-born.  Good-bye!{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab So the interview might be abruptly terminated if all parents had to apply for babies at a \softline
sort of bureau of the unborn.  Since such a bureau is nothing but a fantastic impossibility, the best \softline
substitute we can suggest is that the family physician act as attorney for the new generations to \softline
come.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab If the physician, the woman doctor as well as the man, could be a true counselor of racial \softline
as well as individual health for every husband and wife, not only from the beginning of marriage, \softline
but even before, there would be no need of enacting new laws of a compulsory or prohibitive \softline
nature.  Instead, there would be a frank, honest relationship, not only between this counselor and \softline
his clients, but a finer, more unselfish, and therefore more enduring, love between husband and \softline
wife.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab For instead of merely concerning himself with the petty ailments of his patients, the \softline
physician would become more of a true creative educator in the difficult science of marriage and \softline
parenthood.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab But, the reader may object, you are not telling us how to reach those parents who cannot \softline
afford the counsels of such a physician and are so sunk in the mire of poverty that they would not \softline
know such advice could be obtained?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In the first place, the objection that one cannot reach the parents who most need to be 
instructed in Birth Control is without foundation in fact.  As I pointed out in my first article \softline
published in these pages, thousands of poor conscript mothers throughout the country are \softline
clamoring for emancipation from their endless slavery of involuntary maternity.  Not only do \softline
they appeal directly to me by the thousands every year, they appeal to doctors, to hospitals, to \softline
clinics, to maternity centers, to the directors of settlement houses.  Everywhere they are seeking \softline
reliable knowledge-- from neighbors, friends, as well as druggists, midwives, clergymen, nurses, \softline
social workers, any one, every one, yet they are consistently refused.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Even though these mothers realize the tragedy of brining helpless children into this world \softline
by chance, they are forced to go through the tragedy of enslaved maternity.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab What can we do to help them?\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In the first place, education in the control of conception must be accepted as an integral \softline
part of medical and hygienic education, so that every hospital, every free clinic, every dispensary, \softline
every licensed physician, and every visiting registered nurse may become of real help to the \softline
mothers of America.  It is the public duty of each specialist to uphold our racial strength and \softline
purity.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab This is an essential part of true patriotism, a more profound patriotism than taking an oath \softline
to uphold the laws of our country or to protect the flag.  The future of our country depends upon \softline
the men and women we produce.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab That this new education in parenthood can be made universal is not wild theory.  It has \softline
been tested successfully in other countries.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab This system of marital and parental education is being carried on among the poorer \softline
classes in a number of countries, notably in Holland, and more recently in Great Britain, under 
the name of {\u8220\'93}Birth Control Clinics.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab These maternity education centers-- or, as we call them to-day, Birth Control Clinics-- \softline
were inaugurated no less than forty years ago in Holland, under the pioneering leadership of two \softline
Amsterdam physicians, Dr. Aletta Jacobs and her colleague, J. Rutgers.  Their success in \softline
establishing a beneficial balance between the birth rate and the death rate in Holland, in \softline
diminishing the evils of poverty and overcrowding, led to the rapid spread of maternity education \softline
centers.  Finally, in the compressed little kingdom of Holland, there were no less than fifty-two \softline
such clinics, recognized by the Dutch government as achieving social service of national \softline
importance.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Since the war, a large number of these clinics have been opened in London and other \softline
important cities of England.  Some of them are known as Birth Control Clinics and others as \softline
Welfare Centers.  They are supported in the belief that the welfare of the nation demands that \softline
married couples suffering from diseases which are likely to be transmitted to or to damage the \softline
offspring should be advised against parenthood and instructed how to avoid it {\u8220\'93}without having \softline
recourse to the unnatural method of prolonged sexual abstinence which strikes at the very roots \softline
of marriage itself.{\u8221\'94} \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab At such clinics women would be advised against childbearing:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab First:  When either parent has an inheritable disease, such as insanity, feeble-mindedness, \softline
epilepsy, or syphillis.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Second:  When the mother is suffering from tuberculosis, kidney disease, heart disease, or \softline
pelvic deformity.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Third: When either parent has gonorrhea.  This disease in the mother is the cause of 
ninety per cent of blindness in newborn babies.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Fourth:  When children already born are not normal, even though both parents are in good \softline
physical and mental condition.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Fifth:  Not until the woman is twenty-three years old and the man twenty-five.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Sixth:  Not until the previous baby is at least three years old.  This gives a year to recover \softline
form the physical ordeal of the birth of the baby, a year to rest, be normal and enjoy her \softline
motherhood, and another year to prepare for the coming of the next.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Seventh:  Children should not be born to parents whose economic circumstances do not \softline
guarantee enough to provide the children with the necessities of life.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Eighth:  A woman should not bear children when exhausted form labor.  This especially \softline
applies to women who marry after spending several years in industrial or commercial life.  \softline
Conception should not take place until she is in good health and has overcome her fatigue.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Ninth:  Not for two years after marriage should a couple undertake the responsibility of \softline
becoming parents.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab When children are conceived in love and born into an atmosphere of happiness, then will \softline
parenthood be a glorious privilege, and the children will grow to resemble gods.  This can be \softline
obtained only through the knowledge and practice of Birth Control.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}Even when parents are healthy,{\u8221\'94} it is further pointed out, {\u8220\'93}too frequent childbearing \softline
weakens the health of both mothers and babies, especially if their life is one of poverty and \softline
squalor.{\u8221\'94}  Therefore, at these clinics both antenatal and postnatal care is given.  In addition, \softline
competent medical men and women advise and instruct parents in safe and hygienic methods of \softline
family limitation whenever for reason of public and private health they are convinced that disease 
or extreme poverty renders childbearing prejudicial to the health of either mother or child.  In \softline
such cases temporary or permanent avoidance of pregnancy is advised.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The best scientific thought, not only on the continent and Great Britain, but in this \softline
country as well, now recognizes medicine{\u8217\'92}s responsibilities in forwarding the Birth Control \softline
movement as an essential factor in the maintenance of public and racial health.  In the words of \softline
Dr. William Allen Pusey, formerly president of the American Medical Association: {\u8220\'93}The relation \softline
of medicine to this problem is obvious.  Methods of birth control have to do with the human \softline
body:  and that is our province. . . . Medicine has not give to this problem the attention that it \softline
deserves-- not because medicine is not confronted with it every day, but because the subject is \softline
taboo and the adequate exchange of scientific knowledge concerning it is illegal.  It is a problem \softline
that requires the technical skill fo medicine. . . . \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}This is peculiarly woman{\u8217\'92}s problem.  Of course it is man{\u8217\'92}s problem also, but men are \softline
not concerned in it in the way that women are.  It is women who bear the penalties in injury, \softline
disease, death, and mental torture that are involved in it.  They have a right to know how they can \softline
intelligently-- not crudely and dangerously-- control their sexual lives, and they are justified by \softline
the highest considerations in fighting vociferously and persistently until they have this right \softline
granted to them.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab In recent years there has likewise been a great awakening among liberal churchmen and \softline
religious teachers as to the ethical and moral justification of the theory and practice of Birth \softline
Control.  Leading churchmen of all Protestant sects are not practically unanimous in urging this \softline
scientific and hygienic education as necessary to the foundations of contented marital life, to \softline
strong, happy family bonds and the welfare of posterity.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul0 \tab The Bishop of Birmingham has preached vigorous sermons urging the adoption of Birth \softline
Control as a national policy.  The Society of Friends (the Quakers) have issued a report \softline
approving of the small-family system.  The only religious organization bitterly and violently \softline
inimical to Birth Control is the Roman Catholic Church.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab But this does not mean that Birth Control is contrary to the teaching of Christ.  This point \softline
has been effectively presented by Dean Inge of St. Paul{\u8217\'92}s Cathedral, London, whose recent visit \softline
to this country attracted so much attention.  Dean Inge claims that Birth Control is an essential \softline
part of Christian morality.  On this point he has written:\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab {\u8220\'93}We wish to remind our orthodox and conservative friends that the Sermon on the Mount \softline
contains some admirably clear and unmistakable eugenic precepts.  {\u8216\'91}Do men gather grapes of \softline
thorns, or figs of thistles?  A corrupt tree cannot bring forth good fruit, neither can a good tree \softline
bring forth evil fruit.  Every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into \softline
the fire.{\u8217\'92} We wish to apply these words not only to the action of individuals, which spring from \softline
their inherited qualities.  This extension of the cope of the maxim seems to me quite legitimate.  \softline
Men do not grapes of thorns.  As our proverb says, {\u8216\'91}You cannot make a silk purse out of a sow{\u8217\'92}s \softline
ear.{\u8217\'92} If we believe this and do not act upon it by trying to move public opinion, we are sinning \softline
against the light, and not doing our best to bring in the kingdom of God upon earth.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Elsewhere this courageous churchman has written:  {\u8220\'93}Either rational selection must take \softline
the place of the natural selection which the modern state will not allow to act, or we must go on \softline
deteriorating.  When we can convince the public of this, the opposition of organized religion will \softline
soon collapse or become ineffective. . . . The Christian conception of a kingdom of God on earth \softline
teaches us to turn our eyes to the future and to think of the welfare of posterity as a thing which 
concerns us as much as that of our new generation.{\u8221\'94}\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab The enemies of contraceptive methods declare them to be unnatural and, therefore, \softline
immoral.  The American Birth Control League, of which I have the honor to be president, \softline
effectively answers the objection that Birth Control is unnatural.  \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab We admit the accusation.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Yes.  Emphatically yes.  Of course it is!\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab As unnatural as the hat on your head.  As unnatural as the shoes on your feet.  As \softline
unnatural as the house you live in.  The natural man shivered in a dark cave, and lived on raw \softline
roots and uncooked flesh.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Contraception is as unnatural as the radio you listen in on.  It is unnatural, like talking \softline
over the telephone, or riding in a motor car, or a flight in an aeroplane.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab All inventions are unnatural.  Civilization had advanced by conquering and controlling \softline
the forces of nature.  Man has in the past century worked miracles in controlling the great forces \softline
of nature outside of }{\plain \fs24 \i himself.  }{\plain \fs24 He has harnessed great water power.  He has enslaved electricity for \softline
his uses and comforts.  He has discovered radio activity, and he is busy upon his conquest of the \softline
air, and with fine bravery and illimitable courage is going forth on his greatest voyage of \softline
exploration-- the exploration of the atom.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab He has still to learn to conquer and control these mysterious forces of nature, forces the \softline
great power of which has never yet been adequately measured, which well up to his own \softline
consciousness from the dark uncharted depths of his own procreative instincts.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Sanitation is unnatural.  Hygiene is unnatural.  And so is contraceptive foresight, which \softline
is, none the less, the safest, surest, and only effective instrument by which men and women may 
become the masters of instinct and desire, instead of their slaves.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab We are held back by silence, by inertia, by prejudice.  But all of us-- every American \softline
citizen--must join in this campaign sooner or later.  Because the life happiness and opportunity of \softline
every man, woman, and child among us is bound up with the success or failure of the movement \softline
for Birth Control.  Upon the shoulders of the normal, the healthy, the independent, and the self-supporting falls the ever-increasing burden of the reckless and the improvident.  Every state of \softline
the Union is carrying thousands of wards, criminals, and delinquents.  Subnormal and mentally \softline
defective children are cluttering up the public schools and impeding the progress of gifted and \softline
talented children.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab We advocates of Birth Control are not aiming, as our enemies assert, upon the destruction \softline
of the morals of the country.  On the contrary, we are fighting for the realization of all the latent \softline
possibilities of development now hidden.  We claim that the true wealth of the United States can \softline
be measured only by its strength in real men and real women.  And we refuse to remain \softline
indifferent to truths that are crying aloud for general recognition.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Therefore, we insist on passports for babies.  We insist on the recognition and the rigid \softline
observance of necessary racial traffic regulations.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Without going out of their way, every wife, every mother, every thoughtful husband can \softline
influence public opinion to a new understanding of our problem.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab You are being continually asked to contribute to charities.  Find out what the particular \softline
organization is doing to prevent the repetition of the distress it is seeking to alleviate.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab Find out the laws of your state concerning the liberty it affords physicians to act as \softline
counselors in parenthood.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \ul0 \tab Break through the conspiracy of silence on parenthood and Birth Control, and help those \softline
less fortunate than yourself toward independence, self-support, and parental prudence.  \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab We crusaders for Birth Control invite opposition; we invite discussion; we invite \softline
questions and cross-examination.  Lethargy and indifference are the only true enemies of human \softline
progress.\par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \par
}{\plain \fs24 \tab \par
}{\plain \fs24     \par
}{\plain \fs24 }\tab }